---
tags: journal entrepreneurship
---

I was recently reading [Don't lose your unreasonable sense of
urgency](https://world.hey.com/dhh/don-t-lose-your-unreasonable-sense-of-urgency-b381699c)
and it made me realize I lost mine.

In my search for perfection I have been optimizing instead of
shipping. And it reminded me of my sense of urgency when I managed to
ship in about 3 month about 500 apps on the app store. What stopped
that project was

1. Apple: they changed their store guidelines and decided to shut down
   my business
2. Poor coding: not enough specs. With Apple shutting down my business
   I had no desire to refactor and remodel the business at the same time.

Since then I have focused my career on improving my skills, working
with other people in various compagnies. I love to learn so that made
sense at that time. I want to regain that sense of urgency as it made
me ultra productive.

What excites me are:

- to build apps in the Information Technology space.
- to see them grow and harvesting the fruits
- to do it in a smart and efficient way

And what I need to motivate myself is

1. A technical path
2. A first sale
3. Next steps

## A technical path

I call that a tracer bullet[^1]. I want a clear path from the initial
idea to customers. I want that path to consider costs and growth. I
want the maintenance costs (time and money) to be as small as possible.

an example:

Goal: Create an iOS app. Make it possible to port it to the web and to OSX

- Leverage React native to develop the app
- Use Clojurescript instead of Javascript
  - allows more code reuse (cljc runs on both javascript and java)
  - better code patterns (functional programming, immutability) ->
    less bugs
- Use [re-frame](https://day8.github.io/re-frame/). Still lightyears
  ahead of JS frontends and ultra stable.
- Use datascript on the client side to store state. One state
  queryable with a declarative language helps managing complexity[^2].
- Use clean architecture to allow code reuse. I want to be able to
  extract the business logic to reuse it.
- Use TDD. Mimimum of 90% coverage. I don't want to stuck afraid to
  refactor. I want to ship with confidence on every main branch commit.
- For the datatore, use sqlite3 embedded in the iOs app. Query it for
  all data needs. No server to maintain. No infra cost.

## A first sale

- Publish on the app store
- Minimal price $0.99
- Make sure you provide enough value for that initial price.

## Next steps

- For advanced functionalities, consider providing an API. That API
  needs to be available through a subscription to cover costs. Use
  Traefik and docker-swarm on a dedicated server on [OVH cloud](https://www.ovhcloud.com)
- Expand business using strategies from *The personal MBA*[^3]
- Web version
- OSX version
- Windows version

[^1]: Thomas, D., & Hunt, A. (2019). Pragmatic Programmer, The: Your journey to mastery, 20th Anniversary Edition (2nd ed.). Addison Wesley.

[^2]: Moseley, B. & Marks, P. (2006). Out of the Tar Pit. Software Practice Advancement (SPA), .

[^3]: Kaufman, J. (2012). The personal MBA: A world-class business education in a single volume. Portfolio Penguin.
